Now I'm going to introduce you to subplots sub plots.
The idea of a subplot is to have multiple panels that are next to each other and on top of each other.
And basically, it's a way to show more information from more variables in the same space, in the same
figure.
Okay, so I'll start by writing some code that might look a little strange at first, but you will get
used to it pretty quickly.
So Plt.subplots.
And now I'm going to write one comma three comma fig size equal.
Actually let me leave out fig size for now.
Okay.
So what are these variables that I'm creating.
So fig is a reference to this entire figure.
And then inside this figure are three axes that are arranged in a row.
So here you see axis one, axis two and axis three.
And why are there three in a row.
Well, because I specified the inputs to be a single row and three columns.
So let's say we want six subplots organized in a two by three matrix.
That would be something like this.
And yeah, there's there's no limit to how you can how many of these axes you can make.
But that said, if you have lots and lots of axes, then basically the figure gets harder and harder
to interpret.
So let's leave it at one by three.
And now this additional input parameter that I started to write and then delete was basically controlling
the figure size.
So I will write that now.
So fig size equals 12 by four.
Now when I run this line of code I want you to notice what happens to the physical size of this figure
here.
Okay.
So now I run the code again.
And now you see the figure is much wider.
Okay.
And now I can set this to be 12 comma two.
And now it's exactly the same width, but it's shorter.
And now I can change this to maybe five by two.
And now it's the same height but it's much shorter in this direction.
Okay so fig size is always specified as width comma height.
And then yeah exactly how big you want these to be.
And the ratio between them.
That really depends on the graph on your computer on you know how much you're zooming in here and so
on.
So you will find that in practice you end up changing around these numbers quite a bit.
Okay.
Let's stick with 12 and four okay.
So this variable axes let's have a look at this thing.
Axes.
This you can see it's an array.
So it's a numpy array.
And it contains three elements.
This is axis one, axis two and axis three.
Actually I should be calling the zero one and two okay.
So the idea is that if we want to draw information into this axis over here, this subplot, then instead
of writing plt dot plot, we write axis indexing the first element in this variable axis and and then
yeah, then we do that dot plot okay.
So for example let's do x by x squared.
Let's make this a blue line okay.
So now you see I drew x by x squared and it went into the first axis.
And now I can draw it into the second axis and so on.
So that is x squared.
And now in the next.
So the middle subplot let's let's plot the.
How about the square root of x.
Let's make that red.
And here let's plot.
Uh how about just x by x okay.
Very nice.
Let's see.
Let's do another example here I will.
Right now I don't actually need this variable fig.
So I'm going to just write an underscore here.
This is pretty common in Python when you have a variable that outputs from a function, but you don't
care about that variable, you don't plan on using it.
So you just use an underscore as a placeholder for the variables so that you just, you know, you kind
of it's technically there, but you sweep it out of your memory.
Okay.
So plt.subplots, let's make a two by two, uh, axis, uh, or geometry.
And I'm going to set the figure size to be how about three by three.
And then I'll draw plt.show all the way at the bottom.
Now if I just run this code here, you can already see that the default axis labels are overlapping.
Right.
So the 0.5 and one are overlapping.
You know these are actually the x tick marks from this plot over here.
But they get kind of smushed and smeared on top of this other axis.
So we're going to have to figure out a way to deal with that.
Now here I showed you just indexing the axis variable that I created because it's an array.
So we only needed one number to access it.
But here we can see that this is actually a two by two matrix.
So here we have a matrix of subplots.
So this variable axis is a two by two matrix.
So how do we index this.
So we need to use two numbers to index each one of these axes okay.
And so now we can draw into the zero zero.
So this is the first row and the first column which is this axis over here.
And now dot plot.
What should we plot here.
How about just some random numbers.
I'm just going to draw 4x4 random numbers okay.
So here you see four lines correspond and of length for each, and that just corresponds to for random
numbers.
So each time I rerun this code those lines will look different from each other.
Okay, so then I'm literally going to copy and paste this four times, or paste it three times, and
then change that to one, these to one, this to one.
So now I'm just drawing literally random numbers into each plot.
Okay.
What I want to show you here is first of all, indexing multi-dimensional axes, but also how to get
rid of the, you know, the overlap here.
So I'm going to add another function called tight layout.
Tight layout.
And what that does is tighten up all of the displays of the figures and the axes so that they are not
overlapping with each other.
So basically, every single time you have more than one axis in a plot, you're going to want to use
this function tight layout.
So just get in the habit of writing these out.
You will see that as you get further in visualization, you'll be using more and more of these additional
functions with optional inputs to create these figures and make them look nicer.
One more concept that I want to illustrate in this video is using the enumerate function that you learned
about in the previous section, to organize a or to draw information into graphs using a for loop.
Okay, so let's create some axes Plt.subplots.
And let's just go back to three Figsize equals how about 13.1 and three.
You know, and I'll even make this pie just to show you that these numbers here corresponding to the
figure sizes, they need to be numbers but they don't need to be integers okay.
So 13.1 units wide and pi units high.
I believe these are technically in inches based on a standard piece of paper, but don't think of these
as inches because it really depends on your screen size.
You know, obviously the number of inches that this spans is now very different when I zoom in to ridiculous
proportions.
Okay.
So what I'm going to do now is write a for loop.
And this is going to be exp which I'm using for exponential and then axis in enumerate axes like this.
So now I'm going to be looping over all of the elements in this array.
And I'm also going to create a looping index that starts at zero.
And then it's going to go one two.
And that goes into this variable exp.
So now I can write axis dot plot.
And then let's do x and x to the power of exp.
And let's just start like this.
Okay.
So what have we done here?
I have created a figure with three axes of a one by three geometry.
And then in this for loop I am accessing each individual element in this variable because that's what's
inside enumerate.
And at each iteration in this for loop I call that variable axis.
And then what I'm plotting into axis is x on the x axis.
And the y axis values are x to the power of the looping index variable, which here is zero.
So this is x to the power of zero, x to the power of one which is just x.
And here's x to the power of two.
Of course that's x squared.
Okay.
And then actually these figures are big enough that we don't really need to include PLT dot title layout.
But it's good to get in the habit of including that piece of code anyway.